Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, Heat. Heat. Heat. N. Heat. Heat. Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Hey, Heat. Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. N. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. N. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. N. Hey, Adam. Good morning for me. Um, and happy Friday. >> Happy Friday. Hey, Raid. How's it going? >> Doing pretty well. How are you doing? >> Good, thank you. >> Yeah, good to have you on. Um, appreciate you being able to connect with you and then getting a chance to um talk about um kind of a new new platform uh new tools that haven't been discussed before on the channel. So, >> excited about it. >> Yeah. the um I think this uh what I'll start with is probably a chance for you to maybe do a little introduction about yourself, give us a chance to chitchat a little bit, kind of mention kind of who you are, um what you do, uh share any personal anecdotes or information about yourself if you want to and um we'll chat for a bit and then some point to kind of naturally segue into the topic of the day. >> Awesome. Love it. Okay. So, my name is Adam. I am Platley's uh senior developer advocate and I've been with Plotley since 2021 and I actually started my informal journey with Plotley in around 2020 2019 because I started working with Plotley um and using Plotley and Dash for my previous job and then I started teaching Platly and Dash on my YouTube channel and then I started participating in managing the forum uh managing I mean asking all these answering all these questions on the forum. And then after two years uh they I saw this role open and I applied for it as a community manager and that's when I started officially with plot lean as a community manager and and that's my role right now as a senior developer advocate. My responsibility is to to to to talk to people around the world uh make them aware of the open-source uh and premium products that we have and uh encourage them to use it and then help them support them while they're using it and then spread the word. So it's meetups, it's conferences, it's uh answering questions on the forum, it's newsletter or a blog post and things like this. What I'm doing with you right now, Ray, that is mostly what I'm doing. It sounds like you get a good chance to to meet a lot of people and get pretty involved with the community. Um, being in that role, too. >> I do. I uh that's that's why I love it so much because it's it's all about the community, right? What can I do? What can Plley do to make your lives better to make your lives easier? Specifically, your data analysis and data visualization um uh roles, right? And so the most fun part is being able to see and meet new people uh going to different meetups whether it's in person or or online. We do like a once a month meetup um and and talk to people like you right and discover new discover new communities that kind of compl complement each other. In this case uh PowerBI data analysis with with Poly. Out of curiosity, before the kind of the community involvement in um in this current role, would were you doing something similar in the the previous positions that you were in or was this more like a pivot for you? >> It was slightly a pivot from the non of because I was in a nonprofit role, but it was very similar. It was community based as well because I was working I was at Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City. So, it was youth development, but I was working with the volunteer department. I was managing the volunteer volunteer department. So intake um applications, interviews and getting them ready to become big brothers of big sisters. So my whole role was in recruitment. My whole role was to really engage volunteers and get them to participate in our program. So it has some similarities. >> Nice. Okay. So the so some overlap, but it certainly strikes in some new skills and muscles when you entered this one. >> Yeah. >> Very nice. Um when and speaking on the the the concept of plotly like uh for people who are familiar with the channel here and I'll mention um the we we've talked about it a little bit over the years primarily in some of the the custom visual extensions. I think the last time we had any live stream related to it was the um it was one of the plotlight custom visuals that that uh let let you build out of your your UI like all the various different types of charts and everything. I think there were some 3D ones in there back in >> 2021 that was, you know, you could do like spatial mapping and some other cool stuff that Carrie Kasco demonstrated. Um, so a little bit of experience. Uh, but I'm sure myself and a lot of the other people haven't really dug into plot studio or any of that newer stuff that does a bit of that uh LLM and like a gentic type u here's some requirements, here's the model, you know, build a dashboard for this and that since we're now getting into a lot more like code first type report development. So um where do you want to start the conversation with that? So what I was thinking of doing raid is and if you want to pivot in a slightly different direction let me know but giving like a brief overview of plotly right for your audience who have never heard of plotly and then our open source products with dash and then talk to introduce plotly studio which is what we're going to demo today and it's and how we connect to our powerbi semantic models um and then give a demo uh you know be a theory of one minute or two minutes about poly studio and then give a demo to show the audience fans and our viewers what what it what this is actually all about. >> Perfect. Yeah, let's do that. >> Cool. So, Platley um was founded in 2013 and as you mentioned, right, it's a data visualization library, right? You can use everything uh you can use over a 100 different graph. Let me actually um can I actually share screen because I have the plotly >> um screen up. So, this is studio but we'll go into the graphing library. So, this is plotly graphing library. This is the Python. There's also uh JavaScript which is uh used a lot actually plotly pi right that python is built on top of plotlyjs but it's really really well known for its uh python graphs that you can create so there's over 100 graphs that you can create you can actually go into let's say statistical chart if you want to see more it gives you all the type of statistical charts that we offer uh especially in poly express making it a lot easier to and fast to create a graph So here's an example of um creating a basic histogram, right? We just import the data. In this case, it's built in, but we can import a CSV sheet or whatever in pandas. And then in one line of code, we build a histogram and then we show it. So that's plotly. Plotly is the graphing library. And it's it's rain it's actually downloaded over 40 or 45 million times a month if you go to pi stats >> a month. That's that's impressive. >> Open source so everybody uses it. >> I'm assuming like and you mentioned download just think thinking of like like syncing. Um is there a I would assume a git repository or something for this to connect to where you can you can keep in sync with updates or anything as the library changes. >> Exactly. So it's on git it's on GitHub. If you go to plotly's GitHub channel and then go to plotly.py Pi uh GitHub repo and then you'll see and then the people can see updates, issues, pull requests and what we're working on. So then in 201617 we created something called Dash another open source library that sits on top of plotly the graphing library and this is for people um for for creating fullyfledged analytics dashboards or or data apps whatever you want to call them. So here's a a basic app, right? Very very basic. Down below uh just for tutorial purposes, we have our title, we have our radio button, we have our table, and every time we change the radio button, it actually changes the y-axis of this histogram, right? So now we have some some interactivity between our controls, radio buttons, and our graphs. And so now we're starting to see, okay, this looks like a dashboard, right? And this dashboard is is is built completely in Python. Um meaning Dash, right? And what Dash gives you is the capability to add controls and interactivity to your to your graphs. So if you just use plotly graphing library, you'll be able to add a histogram or a bar chart or a scatter graph, a scatter plot. But what if you want to have them talking to each other? What if you want to have a user uh give the user some controls, right? um and and dropdowns and checklists and date pickers, all these controls that we have right here. Well, you're going to have to use Dash for that. You import into your page um all the insert into your layout and the page all the controls that you want and then you use the what we call the callback in Python very common to actually connect between the controls and the graph. So you have a real live dashboard, right? That's open source dash and open source dash also gets about last time I checked was 6.5 I think million downloads per month very very powerful library now we had this for and we still have it's still very strong and and a lot of people use it but then we said about a year ago or a year and a half ago why don't we build on the on the wave of AI and and make things even easier for people to get started right because imagine you're going to a company or you are working at a company and you're building dashboards with Dash, very powerful ones. Um, and you're showing it for external use or internal use and people love it, but and it's very helpful to understand the strategies or organization and where you want to go, but it takes time, right? A really sophisticated Dash app uh can take a few days, could take a few weeks depending on how sophisticated you want it. Um, and could be two, three thousand lines of code. But we said if we can get AI to write the initial lines of code so you can get started, people will love it. people will take advantage of it. And that's where Potley Studio came into play. We say, you know what, we'll we'll use a powerful LLM under the hood. We'll build our own agent tooling and then we'll have people create Dash apps, live data apps, um, using plot using AI. So, in English and Spanish or whatever language you want, you tell it what you want >> and then it just builds it for you. And that's that's the point behind plotly studio, right? Okay. >> And that's why we built Poly Studio really take advantage of of the power of AI. Um, and anybody who wants to I'm sure it's going to be under the video and description, but uh Poly Studio is an application that you download to your to your computer whether it's a Mac or Windows, you have the free uh very very generous free version. Uh you start it, you install it, you start it and then you'll get you'll get this, right? Well, you won't get any projects. So, you don't have any when you start when you just start. You will see the next page which is create a new project. And this will this we'll see this demo in a second. But this will allow us to to build the the the app the data app that we want in matter of of minutes. It's going to take longer because I'm going to explain things. But in a matter of under three minutes, you can it will write like two 3,000 lines of code and it will create the dash app for you on the Poly Studio app. Any questions here from from you Raor audience before before I show the demo of Plotly Studio? >> I already I have some questions but I think some of them might be answered just by once you start showing the interface and other things like that. So I'll I'll I'll hold a few until we start getting into the the details. >> Perfect. So let me let me jump into the into the meat of it. All right. why we are here. We wanted to show I wanted to show how we are able to connect a lot of us are using um PowerBI and semantic models to and and to build dashboards in PowerBI and PowerBI is a powerful tool um but what if you can create the dashboards with greater ease and and and quicker on top of the semantic models that you have right the data that you have in PowerBI and so that's what what I'm here to offer that's what I'm here to show this is an example. Let me just go to PowerBI actually. One second. Okay. So, this is we're going to work at this simplistic um uh uh semantic model uh in my test workspace one. This is what I call my workspace. Uh it's a space mission data, right? >> And uh well, that's the name of the table. Uh the name of semantic model space missions. And I had actually uh created an automatic uh report on PowerBI based on top of this on top of this data. And this is what we have right pretty nice charts a few bar charts here about the sum of the price of the company. This is like it's actually real data of of rockets being sent to or being built and sent to space from like 1960 all the way to 2020 something. >> And later I'll show like the app that was built by by a community member in Dash which is very very fancy. sum of price by location and so on and so So this was automated report and then I built uh for us Raid uh this right which we're going to go over and try to rebuild something similar right now in the demo but this is an automated report as well quote unquote in poly studio and this took probably a minute once I I clicked on create charts and you can see that it it gives a wide variety of charts here right space mission over time and you have some controls do you want to see all companies uh do you want to see only the success successful missions or the failed missions. We see here missions success rate over time, right? Based on on companies that you can choose from and one more in the bottom company launch cost comparison. If you compare area in space or whatever company with SpaceX with a shared y-axis, you see the the pricing per rocket, right? Um so very very cool initial data insights. um um and and a bit more comprehensive than this automated report that the PowerBI generated for me. So how how did how is this done right? Um how did we do it and then how can we enhance it and do more out of it and then I'm going to show remind me with forget raid how we can actually maybe we just really like a certain graph or two out of the PowerBI report that we want to replicate. We want to do that in poly studio. Well let's we can we can try and do that as well today. So let's say you open you download it for free and you you install potly studio. You open it on your computer and this is what you're going to see. You're going to see uh the new projects page. So first we have to connect to our data. We have three tabs here. Data app and explore. The app is going to be the data app itself. The explore is just like what it says like to explore different ways to add different graphs to our app. And then the data tab is is the initial app. You have to connect some data to it. Right? You can try some sample data. You can upload a CSV sheet from your computer or a parquet file a lot of people do. Or you can connect to major databases out there. Snowflake datab bricks um uh S3 buckets MySQL. We are going to connect to PowerBI. We haven't created that button yet. We'll probably do that in the near future. So what I did is I created a prompt because what what this is right is just a prompt. When I say connect to Snowflake, it's just telling our AI our Poly Studio AI is telling it. It's giving it a prompt. Connect to Snowflake using whatever password, username, and try to find the databases in the table and return the schema. Whatever. It's just a prompt. So, I'm going to give a prompt to connect to PowerBI. And this prompt has worked for me um so far 90% of the time. So, let's hope that it works again. Let's see. Here we go. Copy it. Okay. So, here's the prompt. I'm going to connect to I'm asking Poly Studio to connect to PowerBI services and Ray remind me I can we can I can give share this prompt with you so you can share with the community. Uh connect to PowerBI services and the space mission semantic model remember because our semantic model will call space missions right here. Make sure it's spelled correctly and the hyphen and everything. Um and the test workspace one. That's the name of my workspace. And I'm going to tell it to connect to the space missions data table. Right, which is right here. specifications data table. So I'm telling it to do that and I'm going to give it some extra help saying for authentication only use these credentials tenant ID client secret pad application. This is assuming that you have service principle if you register your application. You can also do this via username and password but this is usually the safer route for on Asia and PowerBI to work with with with data and dashboards. Um and then and that's it. So, we're going to hit um submit. And now it's going to create the credentials uh tab or fill in the credentials tab. So, you can actually fill in uh the credentials, right, that you need. We said tenant ID, we said client secret and client application ID. So, configure credentials and let me plug those in there. >> And with the code that's coming out, is that like a kind of a you could just look at the code or is can you go tweak the code? >> Great question. Great question. Yeah, I'm going to show that in a second. >> Okay, nice. >> Uh, let me just plug it in there. So, while it does it thing, I can continue talking. >> Client ID, the client secrets. Okay, trans value. Okay, so I'm going to say credentials. And now it's going to do its thing and try to connect to my semantic model to answer your question, R. So what it does and this is we're going to see this in the app tab as well. It's generally how how poly studio works. You give it a prompt right in whatever language and then it will actually create the specification out of that prompt which is a a more a lot more detailed prompt right telling plotly studio the AI and the large language model under the hood what it actually specification will appear here. Okay it's working what it what it actually needs right what it actually is going to do. So you see it's much more detailed than my prompt. Obtain access token from Microsoft Asia error hand build some error handling and so on. So and on top of that this is what it bases it its decision on to to write the code. So it's writing code Python code to connect to the um to the to PowerBI in this case right to the semantic model. So >> okay >> a second. There we go. So it wrote the code and now it while I was talking what was it like 20 30 seconds it was executing the code using the credentials that I gave it and you can always look at the logs to see what it's really doing under the hood right especially if you get some errors or it gets stuck. So now we saw that the preview worked because it actually connected to our it actually connected to our to our semantic model. You see here we have what is it? Uh it's actually here there's right there we have these columns and we can compare right we if we go to the what is the space mission data space mission uh data why did it give us this column name it's a bit different okay let's see the problem is that the table name contain a hyphen space mission data which needs to be let me fix the query syntax I encountered an error processing error request string object has no okay let's see can you fix the error okay we're usually we can talk to at this stage really a chat. Let's try continue. We go into the >> Yeah, >> yeah, the tables will be in single quotes and then square brackets would be the the column reference or at least the DAX language. >> Okay. Well, let's see when I hit continue what it gives us. It is still able to process uh the data the way that we gave it. >> And one now that the data is in there, it's going to create this this interface, right? This is a user interface. This is going to be what eventually the dashboard is going to look like, right? Eventually it's going to be where is it? Uh eventually is going to be this, right? Or something similar. It always creates new charts and different charts depending on what you what kind of charts you tell it to create. So, all right. So, it's building the theme of the of the of the thing. It's building of the dashboard. It's going to give us some data cards, which is going to refer to these on top right here. These data cards are summary cards similar to the report we had in PowerBI and then and then it's building some filter components some global controls and filters. We we have three options here Ray to explore suggestions which is the explore tab. Create a new visualization with just one single visualization. We can tell it what we want. Build me this graph or this on the y axis this x axis or something generic. Tell me I need to see the correlation between rocket prices and and and company launches whatever. and then it'll try to build a graph and a visualization build a code that best responds or uh gives you a response to that question or that inquiry that you have. We're just going to create generate um six charts that it think it thinks is uh the the best charts for now to to start with, right? They're not necessarily the best or the best, but the the good charts to start with. And what >> one quick one quick question as you're bringing this in I just had to get the the comments here working ah um oh there I'll just read out the question so from Jake is assuming that you have uh um so far working with a single table does it work with a full star schema um full model design um in in PowerBI or do you have to pull like from one table at a time? >> Great question Jake. Um so right now actually we're going to have another webinar a plotly uh uh webinar on March 11 where I'm going to show a little bit more of a sophisticated uh semantic model that has multiple tables right so what we could do in that case what we will do and you you can even do today is you can connect that semantic model to poly studio and you can tell it I have multiple tables there. >> Thank you. I have multiple tables there. Um, but I see that these two tables, table A and table B have a column, a common column, right? Which is usually like the key column, right? Which is the customer ID if it's sales, whatever. Please merge those two tables into one on on top of that customer uh key ID and Poly Studio will do that, right? It will create the table that you want it to create out of all the tables that exist there and then it will build the data the the the dashboard on top of that um of that table that it created for you. I hope that answers the question. >> I think I think so. I guess the the other question too with the um the built-in measures that are in the model does it does it have access to those or >> That's a good question. I actually uh didn't have I didn't have a chance get a chance to actually look into it yesterday. It should have access to the to the built-in measures and metrics. Um, but you should test it out. Like anybody answer asking this question or watching this video now or later in the data sources tab where we were just at tell it. I I have a what is it called? Metrics or the measures. >> A measure. Yeah, >> measure. I have a measure called uh see here. Where is it? I have a measure. Well, this one I don't have the other semantic models do. I have a measure called whatever uh uh monthly sales. Right. go in there and and pull that data and sometimes it's usually just one measure, just one one value. So you can say pull that data into the table that you already created and make a new column out of it. Right? So this will be our total sales and go into the other measure and make a new column out of that in the original table that we created. So you can stick and glue everything together into the table that you desire to create and then build on top of that. So >> one just one just one just a final followup on this one. Let me and here >> um so is the so it sounds like uh this data is imported or or would it continuously pull from the model itself? Uh I'm not sure I understand the So I in >> Is it getting a live feed of the data or is it copying the data over and you have to like refresh it like it is it you know each time you open this report is it going to have the the current data in PowerBI? >> It should each time you open this report um because it's connected through our credentials if the semantic model has updated data this should have updated data as well. >> It's a live feed. Yep. >> It it's it's possible to do that here. You can actually even click on the refresh button and you should be able to to refresh the data. Right? If that's not not working automatically, the refresh data that's coming in from the semantic model, it doesn't work automatically, you can go back to to the um uh the data sources and we can create a prompt for that as well. >> Okay. >> Um that's a that's actually a very good question. I'm going to try to talk about that in in in the next time I present this on March 11. Great questions. your audience is is knows what they're talking about. Um so here we have here this is our version of automatic report right it created uh six charts that it thought would be very useful for for the user of this data set the data consumer right uh we have emission success rate with confidence intervals right of and you see it's not it's different than the one we created before that I created yesterday we have group by rocket so we can group by company or location and then we get the success rate based on application with these confidence intervals. Seems like the best success rate is in California and the worst is in Cape Carnival in Florida. Um again, we'll have to check maybe only two rockets were three rockets were sent from that space in the 60s and then one one you know didn't go well. uh to top companies by number of missions. We have Aryan and Space had what close to 300 missions over time since the 60s and Rocket Lab only had about 28. Maybe they went bankrupt or maybe they're a new company that just started five years ago. Anybody using this data has probably knows what they're doing, probably knows about this data a lot more and could really interact with these graphs. So, right here we have our initial report, right? You can if you could compare it to this initial report from PowerBI. It does it does look a little bit more interesting. there's more graphs there. There's more analysis um than this. Um so that's I was excited when I saw that. And now we want to say maybe we you know what let me show you the explore tab before we in two minutes or five minutes I'm going to try to recreate one of these things one of these graphs. But let me show you a little bit finish the overview of Poly Studio. So people in your audience people watching this might say okay cool wow we created a nice dashboard. Where can I go from here? Like what else? What if I want to add graphs or edit graphs or whatever? So, this is where we have the edit button right here. We can even open this to the side and we can go to inside any chart that we want or we can just edit. Click the edit button. It'll go there immediately. So, we're going to try and edit. I don't know. Yeah, let's do this. Edit this graph which is the first graph. So, it goes into our into our chart into our card. And this is the most important thing to understand in plotly studio of how it works. So here we have a few things. We have our preview, right? We have four but tabs here. We have our preview. We have the controls. This is sorry. These are like the global filters that we have on on top of the whole app. And then we have our controls. We have our dropdown which is a year, quarter or month. We can change it which will change the graph obviously or uh we have all companies or or some of them or all right. Um and so we have the preview tab. We have the specification tab which radius like I told you where it takes basic prompt that we gave it the very very basic prompt. It gives a very detailed specification, a much detailed prompt on top of which it builds the code to create this this card right with all the with the line chart with the drop downs. This is all Python and Dash. It gives you some logs in case it has to filter up the data. You know, you know what data it's filtering and how it's filtering the data. So, it's not, you know, um taking data away that it's not supposed to take or slicing data it's not supposed to slice. And and then you have and then you have your then you have your graph. But what you can say is, you know what, I I want to edit this because I'm not really happy with this with granularity like this. What is this monthly? It's it doesn't look good. I don't want users to have the even the option to use a monthly um drop down uh time frame. It's just too it doesn't look good. So, I'm going to keep it either at quarterly or year. So, to do that, you're editing the graph. So, what to edit a graph, you have to go to the initial prompt and you have to find where it does that, right? X data group by year date perfect Y-axis group by year D all data cumulative emissions options drop downs just select time year and quarter we're going to take a month out of there we're going to just erase it we're default into year um drop down to filter company D I can look at the specific and then let me hit play I'm going to hit this submit button and this should successfully submit the change right because you only change one one small thing so it's the code should look pretty much the same, right? Because you didn't really tell it to change anything, just the default in the drop. Now, sometimes you got to be careful. Sometimes you got to make sure that uh in the specification, you also uh also need to update things depending on what what what you want to update, right? Because the specification has a lot more information on what is changing. For example, the dropown said uh year and quarter, but what if what if what if there was another drop down or another something else that talked about it needing the quarter uh that the monthly sorry the monthly time frame to do some things. Well, you got to make sure that we remove monthly. So, remove it from there as well. And you can do that by copying this or whatever part of the specification you want and just add it or copy the whole thing. It doesn't matter. and just add it to to the to the prompt to the main prompt itself. Right? This is just it's just a prompt. It's just a longer prompt, right? And then you can just change it however you want. So, uh we change let's see if it worked, right? Year. I'm going to move this to the side. And now we have year and we have quarter. So, it worked, right? There's no there's no monthly. We remove monthly for there. We didn't want it. Same company, same everything. And now this is version and it it actually wrote you the code. This is the code to actually execute this. Um and then the preview is here. Um and so this is version two. >> Now rate some people actually >> some people say that like wait but I made that change but actually studio didn't really I I regret it. It's not the change that I really wanted or it's not exactly what what I wanted. Maybe I should explain myself better. You can reiterate again. You can go back to the prompt and say you know whatever. You can change things again or you can just say no it's it's really completely different than what I wanted. Let's go back to version one and you go back to version one. You can say instantly restore if you're happy with if it's actually version one. Right? You just got to view the previous version. Let it load and it should go back where the dropdown has uh what did it remove monthly. Right? Okay. This is actually what I wanted. Let's just just restore this and let's just keep it. Right. So that's the versioning. That's that's our version of control Z, right? Because if you put a prompt, you change it >> like you have to undo. Well, now you can just go to the previous version. Um, so it's going to be like call like version three, right? Because it's the third time it's doing it. It's every time it does it, it consumes a little bit of AI credits, but you get a nice amount of AI credits when you first sign up for free. All right, so we we change it back to months. It's going to be like the original one. And and then we can go back here to the app summary to see the whole app again. Right? So this is how you edit graphs. You can edit other things. You can edit the data data summary uh cards. You can enter the filters, the theme. Maybe you don't want yellow over black. You want a different theme. Um uh and you can add a table. Maybe you want to see a table of something. Uh and so on and so on. And like we said, oh, we'll do this. We'll do this in a sec. One last thing you can do, well not last but one of the things, you can always upload the pre restart preview. If it didn't, it didn't preview the app correctly or you found an error, just restart your preview. You can go to the layout like a drag and drop. We have, right? What if uh we want the last two graphs to be on, no, the first two, we want them to be on uh one mission count over time. We want them to be on one one row. Well, we can >> I do like the the the schematic layout that's like a essentially the summarized version of what the the actual page looks like. That's nice. >> Yeah. Yeah. And then you can hide when maybe you want to publish this is for you, but when you publish it, you want other people to see you don't want them to see this one. Hide component. Not interested because the people who are going to see this shouldn't be seeing this graph. The fifth one, what do you say? So, the only thing I might uh recommend on this that I don't see here is the um because I'm assuming these are all viewed from browser or or app. Uh do you guys actually have an app or is it just like just from like web browser when you're uh looking at these? >> Good question. Good question. So, what happens and I'm going to cover even more of it in a second, but what happens? Okay, so it loaded. Did it do it? Okay. Uh see if it works. Yeah. So, the first two tries 50/50. You see? Well, let's remove this. uh 50% 50% first two are in one row and the fifth one uh great we decided to remove uh well hide not remove mission success rate says the mission space over time should not be here good yeah that's the fifth one that's hidden right now so >> right to answer your question um uh this is right now on my computer right the data is on my computer everything is on my files and my on my Windows computer um you can view in browser, you can click here. You can say preview in browser. Okay. So now you're going to view it on our local host, right? And now we can see it in the browser how it looks in like more like real life on on a browser. Um and but this is only for you, right? It's a local host like when you develop your Dash app and and later when you're happy with this, which we're going to do in a couple of minutes, we can actually publish this. You can publish this to the web or to plotly cloud and then you can share the link with anybody so they can see exactly this this dashboard. Right. >> Okay. the the curiosity on that a little bit is a is a thought on on layout um which they do in PowerBI which if you don't do it yet might be a good idea is um having a separate uh mobile layout where you can choose to hide or show certain things because on desktop you might have like extra cards that are see titles or this or that and you you might want it bigger and you might want like you you'll have a different arrangement. So I could imagine like two layouts could be useful for like recognized uh oh this is web mobile this is web desktop type. That's a good That's good. Great advice. That's great advice. >> Uh we do try to make it um screen responsive and mobile responsive. Y >> but even having more giving the user more controls um the header with the layout could be could be better. >> Yeah. Basically just like layout desktop layout mobile. Yeah. Because it just duplicate that but and just have an easy flag to identify like is mobile is desktop. uh because they the HTML can be responsive but sometimes it will like stack in the wrong order or other stuff like you know wi-i with those. So like giving that user control could be really useful. >> That's true. Last thing I wanted to show before we publish this thing and I want to enhance this a little bit. Um so we have a couple ways of enhancing or adding to our automatically generated six graphs. Right? First, one way is like we talked about before is to just add a graph that you want. And let's let's actually try and do that. Let's go to we're going to instead of adding something out of my head, we're going to take the plotly the PowerBI report and we're going to try and add that. We'll say um add I think we already had a sum of price. Sum of price by company. Let's try that. Um, add a Okay, so we'll tell it add a horizontal add a horizontal bar chart that >> once you're done with that too, I finish this up. I'll I'll queueing up a few questions to pop up. Add a horizontal bar chart that does that visualizes uh the sum of price by company with company on the y axis. It can be as detailed as you want here because you want to replicate what I in this case I want to replicate what's in powerbi and sum of price on the x- axis. Sum of price on the x axis y price on the x- axis. Um yeah, I think this is good for now and we can say add chart. So hopefully um it will plot le studio the AI will understand the instructions fairly clearly and like we said raid is going to build a specification a much more detailed prompt to it. on top of that specification is going to write the code and with that code it's actually going to create so there's very little room for hallucination right because if it's hallucinating the code just won't work it's bu you're writing code for you and the code is what spits out the plotly graphs and the drop downs >> so while this is loading uh let me try and answer some questions >> yeah I'll I'll have one for me and then segue into the just the other two I've ke what's the underlying LLM language that you're leveraging here is that a mixture of like uh GPT, Anthropic, Gemini, what's Yeah, yeah, >> great question. So, I think right now we're using one of Claude's large language models. I'm going to close this just so people see. So, it created it and I'll go back to that question. Total price by company. Let's see if it it's exactly what we our PowerBI graph that we had. Sum by price in dollars, company on the y-axis, area and space has about 3.7. Let's see here in space 3.7 billion. Yep. So it created exact astro at the end it created a good we we were successfully replicated our powerbi graph in plotly studio. Um great so to answer the question we are uh the large language models that we're using is one of one of the ones most recent ones from um Claude um uh and we test it. We the thing is we we have our our our agent everything is is is ready to build this and we can choose the LLM that we want. So far >> okay so you you can drop down like I I want to use this model or like you know I think this this has a tendency to know me better on like my asks I would prefer this model instead. So you do have a model solution. No, but Ray, let me let me explain. Let me clarify. >> We can do that as plotly as our engineers company. We can say, you know, we want to use that LM because what we do, we test it every couple times a week. We test with over a 100 data sets to see which model not only is faster, but which model is also gives us better um uh better accuracy and better graphs. And if we realize one day in one of our tests um that Gemini does a better job uh whatever, then we'll change. We don't have any issues changing now. Okay. >> Does the user can the user is there a drop down here for the user say use this or use that? No, we don't have that. Okay. Maybe in the future. But what we do have with with uh I think it's with paid versions that you can bring your private LLMs into it, right? Well, some people are like I don't especially for the companies. I don't want to some of these not all of this data is really shared with the LLM. You'll get like the top the schema of the table of your missions in this case space missions maybe the couple of first rows. So it's not completely completely uh uh hidden from LLM. LM will see it a little bit. So if you really if it's really high sensitive data, you probably want to work with your own private LM that you have on your computer or on your servers and that you can connect with a paid version of Plley Studio. >> Gotcha. Okay. The the um so you know it sounds like a little bit of it is you you want to ensure that it's going to like accurately be able to both use the tool, read the data and all that. So that's why you do the the testing from your >> the testing not only read it accurately but but also um quickly write 2,000 lines of code and and write and give us the best grasp possible, right? Um and so far we've been using claude >> and uh so and then two questions from the audience and then I'll I'll show up here is the uh one from Jake. Um again he's wanting to know uh what's uh what are some of the differences between plotly specifically and like Vega or Vegaite? Uh they seem similar. Uh that's a Jake that's a great question. Unfortunately, I don't know Vega enough to be able to answer. I I remember looking at a couple of years ago. Uh pretty strong library as well. Um so I I can't really do the comparison. What I do know I don't know what comes on top of Vega. What comes on top of Plotley is is natively built into Dash to build dashboards uh completely with Python like you saw. Um and then on top of that comes plotly studio. So we you can't go into poly studio and say okay build me vega graphs it's building with plot. So that's if people if somebody if my friend came to me and asked should I learn Adam Paly and Vega both look like they have cool charts which one should I learn? I say well I would if you want to build really sophisticated dashboard I would learn plotly because later you can use the the dash and poly studio to reiterate on top of those and to build like fancy dashboards. I don't know if you could do that with Vega. >> Gotcha. Okay. And then last one um for Nando is wanting to know uh this was from the when you clicked publish and everything earlier is there any security for distribution like sharing um uh so yeah to some degree yes. So what I'm going to show now is um okay we're going to click publish and while it publishes it takes two minutes I'm going to show you one last thing and hopefully answer Fernando's question um to show you some of the plotly cloud and security measures that we have in there. So we are uh uh actually let me show you this this tab. One last thing ra I wanted to show you is this in the explore tab is where we give the plot studio gives you some suggestions like over sometimes like 30 40 suggestions of different graphs that you can create right based on 13 years of experience as as as as plotly as a company and with data visualization like we know our stuff right so we're going to give some suggestions okay maybe you should build these are the first six that you built automatically when you clicked generate charts but here are some other ones that you can create look mission by rocket type uh reliability growth model and failure rate analysis. Sounds pretty fancy. It's it's actually part of the tool or calculator uh section. If we don't know exactly what it means, we can view the prompt. The initial prompt, not the specification, the initial prompt. Oh, so this what plotly studio means. We're going to track how mission reliability improves over time using cumulative success metrics and da da da. It's going to be a line chart. It's going to be another line chart with some x and y axis and data and so on and so on. Okay, seems cool. For the purpose of this uh demo, we're not going to go into every single line and try to explain it. We'll just generate that. We have some pivot tables here. Mission count by company and rocket. Maybe we'll do rate. Is there anything here that caught your eye when you were reading that you want me to click on >> mission by company mission count by location. >> Can try one more. Cost efficiency and trend analysis. There's anything that can be compared rather than just top 10 A versus B. >> Let's see. Comparison. Lookup. Lookup usually has compare. Compare. Compare side by side. >> Mission counts of rocket types, average mission cost of launch companies, mission success rates of launch. >> Yeah, mission success rates could be a good one. >> Okay, let's generate that. So, and the last thing I wanted to show you while it's generating, you know that this is generating because if you go back to the app tab, you'll see these spinners. So they're still generating, right? We'll go back to the explore. And one last thing I wanted to show some you can also try to regenerate via image. Let's see how how well this works. Create from an image. So we're going to go to our power battery report. We're going to see these two things. Uh sum by price of location and sum price by rocket with the price on the x axis and location and rocket on the y- axis. So we're going I'm going to copy this. I'm going to create a JP JPEG out of it and then I'm going to load this image to plot studio and have studio ask studio plot studio to try and recreate it. So I pasted it here. I'm going to crop it. Going to save it. Save as image 20. Okay. So now we'll go back to Poly Studio and we'll create from image. We'll click on create from image. We're going to drag image 20 in there. Okay. So I drag in. I don't you can give it some additional information. Recreate this but put this on the X-axis. duplicate this but change the the title whatever we'll just create the image because we want to replicate what we have on PowerBI and now we'll now it will try to actually do that uh okay so it created the prompt we can view the prompt and see okay does this make sense to us in the interest of time we're just going to click generate sum of price on the x- axis it was horizontal and we'll see and in the meantime we'll see the other two that that you asked Ray that you suggested we we look into the launch location success rate. >> So we had the promp the initial prompt that we saw uh which created the the detail specification which created the code and now it's going to preview the uh the chart for us. Can I click on publish? No, let me let me have the last chart create before I can click on publish. One second. Publish. Publish. Publish. Okay. Okay. So, this is a view of um one of the charts. Interesting. Look at this. It's a reliability, growth, and failure rates analysis. Looks pretty fancy. This I don't like how it looks like. You might might need to change that a little bit. Okay. So, this is one of the graphs. You can change by window size. Let's just do 10 missions. Um group by rocket or we can group by company. probably fewer companies there. Okay, so that's one. Another one. Okay, percent. Yeah. Yeah, it it reminds me of the um what >> I'm completely spacing on the name of the chart. It's the it's the one that shows the the the growth curve to to to meet meet 100%. Um >> Oh, yeah. Isn't that the C? Um >> because I've done this with DAX before in PowerB. Yeah. Where there's a formula to to get that specific line where across category or something like you know how how you know how many counts across do you have to get before you're getting that like 80% threshold. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I >> per Thank you. It's a Prito chart. >> A P. Okay. You got good audience. >> Okay. Here's what you asked for, Ray. This this chart launch location success rate comparison. So, we're comparing a shared y-axis, which is going to be the success rate, and um we're going to see uh the Kennedy Center location and the Gana Space Center location. So, we see it's pretty small. I want to move this a little bit. No. Uh make it bigger. One second. Okay. So we see um the in Kennedy Center we only had two launches 97% 97 and 100% and the the Gana maybe we'll change it Gana Gana have 97% 96 95 depending on the location in Gana um and the I want to change this to maybe somewhere okay carnival in the USA Florida here we go so depending on I forgot what the LC means maybe it's a certain Oh, it's a rocket, isn't it? 65% success rate. So, this anyway, so this is a comparison. I wish I had more time to really dig into the data. Oh, and let's see the last thing that we created, which was the uh the image. Let's see if it actually created the image. We wanted to create this image, these two into one graph. And so, it created this. Oh, it gave us a drop down instead of two separate graphs. It created was location and rocket. um it gave us a drop down of uh that could into and and put everything into one graph. So we can see the top n this is by total price by location or we can see total price by rocket the top 10 you see and we get the same the same data falcon 9 five with 1.3 billion see if it's accurate Falcon 9 1.3 billion. Yep. So it's exactly the same data >> and we can actually see top 10 or top 15 or top 20. So anyway, let's answer the question that Fern was it Fernando uh sorry if I'm mixing the name. Um we'll publish it. We're going to publish it to the cloud because we really like how our app looks like. We're happy with it. We replicated the graph that we wanted. Now we're going to publish to our cloud account which you open again as soon as you install Poly Studio. You open the cloud account also for free. And the free version will allow you one app running at a time. You can upload publish to the cloud like 10 apps but only one can run at a time. the next next paid version. I think you can you have as many as you want or a very nice amount but um the beginning is just one at a time. So I just clicked on that. So we're going to go to cloud. We're going to go to our browser. I think I had it open thoughtly cloud. So this is my cloud account. You see this one I did yesterday and we just did space mission. You see how it says building? This is our cloud account. You'll have nothing there if you're just starting or audience members watching this. you'll have nothing in your cloud account because you just you just started this. Um, and so you see that it's still building. And here, >> okay, >> in here you can go to the settings. Eventually, you'll click on the I and you'll be able to view your app. But in the settings, um, you'll be able to to change things. So, we'll go to sharing. And this answers some security question, right? You can say, um, anyone with a link can view, right? Now, doesn't really matter that much because the link is right now is, uh, where is the link? app name app URL. So this is our this is our link right just a a random set of numbers. Um so if we do we can update this. I can't remember what is paid and what is not paid but you can update and you can um you can up the name you can say space dashboard um yeah space dashboard.pley.app save. So now you up you updated the name and the sharing. Let's go back to the sharing. You can see anybody can view or you can say no access but if you give no access um meaning only you can see this so it's obviously more secure you might want to add certain team members upgrade well you have to upgra your upgrade your plan I think it's 29 a month or something and then you can choose certain emails and say I want these five people to be able to see my only these five people with these emails to be able to see my app and whenever the the will go to the app they'll be able to see it let's see Here this is my app space dashboard.py.app and I have to lo I have to log in because I I I did what you call it want to have it open to everybody. >> All right. Now once you're ready to I'll queue up some questions from a few people in the audience once you're done with this part. >> Sure. Let me just log in. Okay, so here's our app that we just created, our data app with the side by side and the last one from the image that we recreated from Power RDBI. I'm pretty excited about this. I've been doing this for like 10 15 times, but it's really really cool. All right, so what are the questions? Ray. Yeah, so let me pop up the first one. Um, would you be able to provide a picture with colors you're interested in to create a theme um for this? So basically is like just something that just has a color palette. It could be a photo anything like hey can you create a theme file based off of you know what you find as the common patterns in this. >> That's a great question. Um I've never tried that Fernando you're tackling with some challenging questions but what I could say what I would try to do to tackle this I would say a picture with the colors of interest to create the theme. So I don't know if Fernando is meaning the theme of the card the the the graph or the theme in general of the whole of the whole data app and in that case you will go to themes and Fernando you might be able to do something like this in the prompt itself you would say um please you can't upload an image here but you can try and tell it please connect to my image on uh xxx uh com right wherever that image is image one. It's somewhere online, right? You can you can put images online that are accessible. Um and um try like what what you said FRA try to copy the theme and imitate the theme in this in this uh dashboard, right? And then it will try to do that, right? It has you can tell it has green, bluish scenes, whatever. and then it might be able to connect because I've seen people connecting to um to uh certain um logos online and adding their logos to the front page to right here uh on top somewhere. So that should be possible. What's the next question? >> Yeah, I'm just trying to queue each one of them up and I can help answer this. Um it just it's it'll be about the DOX measures again. Um so the model that he's using at the moment is just it's a single table with a built-in um aggregation column versus a measure. Uh but I think you were saying you you you think that plot uh can access the measures if you had one in the model. Yes, >> I think so. So you would go back to the data and you would say here there's this this um this uh PowerBI connection the semantic model has X measure name uh add it to our table here as the as the last column. So it might I haven't tried it yet but anybody watching us if you can if you're successful with it please let Ray know in the comments under the video and I will check him and I would be happy to to read them as well and see if it works for you. >> Perfect. And last question will pop up from Fernando. Um when you're if you're using the paid version and you're sharing with people um these are is this sharing with like an active directory or are these users in the plotly platform itself? >> Uh great question. I think it's well it's email addresses for sure. Um and I don't know if the only thing I don't know yet but I can make an assumption is that you're given access to their email address. It doesn't necessarily mean that they will be able to automatically see the app. I think they would have to go into Plley cloud, open an account on Ploud, which is which is a free account and then they would be logged in to the Ploud account and then they would be able to see it. Log into the PolyCloud account, the free the free well, it's free. There is a Poly Cloud and then and then be able to see the the app that you sent you shared with them. >> Gotcha. Okay. Perfect. >> Cool. So um this one one second I wanted to show you that's the app the overview of the cloud. Okay what else in the cloud I want to make sure I didn't miss anything. So you can add specific members with the upgraded version. You can remove uh plotly logo. Uh the free versions will have a plotly logo on there. Um review you can review log here's here's where you stop them. Right? Remember I told you in the free version of Cloud and Studio, you can have as many apps as you want, but only one working at a time, right? Look at my look at my uh apps here. I obviously don't have a free version, a more advanced one, but I have multiple apps. What I have like 38, but I only have four that are running right now. So, what you would have to do if you if you have a free version, just go into your to the ones that that are running and just turn them off. If you just if you just want to use the free version, just go action and stop, right? And that will stop it. Uh because you in the free version, you can only have one app running at a time. Um upgrade the plan team members and then in general I showed you you can update your name, you can update the URL. Uh and you can delete your dash like this. And then it's a team, right? this you actually when you're on the cloud you can actually you're actually the team creator and um you can invite uh team members to join your team as well as you advance and make more things. So that's my that's my spiel. This is what I wanted to show everybody regarding semantic models and power in polyly studio and how you can get all of this is like 2,000 lines of code with more more there's more graphic probably like 2,500 and if I just did this without without explaining every single step and and button this will probably be done in like six five six minutes. So that's what's so powerful and incredible studio you can connect to any data source you want. Right here we showed PowerBI but you can connect to um you can connect to Snowflake data bricks um MySQL um uh MSSQL and so on and so on. >> Oh um let me pop this uh co and I might I might need to answer this one. So let me just read it on. >> So users do not need a parallel. Um so like from a licensing perspective it you know the the model will need to be in a workspace that can have the endpoint enabled. Um so that will be one requirement. Um but maybe like so how did you uh can you explain a bit more about from your end the connection that you use did that require a PowerBI pro license for you to be able to connect to the model? >> Great question. Maybe you can help me answer that right now. No, because what I did, I created a free trial account from PowerBI, right? So, I have 60 days free trial, but I'm assuming and then I I created again you can you can and then I put my semantic model up there created my semantic model and then one way to connect the model to plotly studio um is through username and password instead of telling it client ID uh and client secret just password and it was able to uh to connect it. The other way which is like from what I understand is a more secure way is I registered the app. I did app registration and then I created a service principle and and then I made the the API talk to that that workspace and everything was done with with a trial method. Once my trial meth my trial uh uh time ends I think in about 35 days I'm assuming Ray that I would have to at least upgrade to the initial plan whatever that is. >> Yes. Yeah. So this what assumption you did just follow follow any standard external reporting credentials like um you know if you have a full capacity that was connecting I'm just explaining this to the the audience um like like a lighthouse or a warehouse you'd have like you could you could have a SQL endpoint connection technically that's separate um regular authentication could work which would give you in theory the role of a security or to his point if you had a service account or something else you could potentially do that but you know it would follow similar principles where if you were connecting Tableau to a semantic model or or just any other external reporting tool. Um all all of those uh either licensing or capacity uh requirements should be identical here. >> Yeah. And also one thing I forgot but this question reminded me is that pli studio in PowerBI I think that you have to pay by number of viewers here if you if you make the app like like um viewed by by anyone right where we had it here um right here sharing and we said anyone with a link can view it doesn't matter if you have 10 people viewing it or a million people viewing it you're paying the same price which is in this case >> granted like most most reports usually have sensitive data you wouldn't want to usually do that with but Yeah, but if you're doing a public website report or something, for sure. It's equivalent to like a publish to web in in uh in in PowerBI where you can just take the report and and throw it onto like a a dashboard page or something. >> True. >> Uh let's see. There's another question. I'll see if I can queue up here. Some good ones from Aurora. All right. Pop this up. And so one plotly app gives access to visuals on one data connection only if I have a second file and visuals on that can be in the the same app or separate. So essentially like can you combine multiple data sources into a single app um you know snowflake and powerbi and a few others >> and not currently or I think this is something that we're working on and maybe in the future we'll have uh actually I'm pretty sure we'll have that in the future. Right now it's one table at a time. This is a table. So you can say this is built on top of this table. And let's say this table we merge different columns from different tables into one table. Okay, then we're building on top of this table. But let's say you have another data set that's in snowflake. You can try to connect to it um and it will connect but eventually and it will create a new table here. Create table number two, the snowflake table. So you'll have to choose in the dropown which table you want to build on top of in order to build your dashboard. Or you can try and I've not tried this before. You can try to connect between the tables if those data sets are talking to each other. But right now it's like one data set at a time. >> Okay. Yeah. I mean that that makes sense because there's a lot of joins and other stuff that you would essentially have to start you'd have to turn this into a modeling platform if you actually did that versus just accessing models. Yeah. That that's that's a lot harder. So >> very cool. Um anything else you want I can switch back to to our conversation screen unless you had anything else you wanted to show here. No, this is all I wanted to show. >> Perfect. Let me pop that back over here. Um, yeah, this is a really cool overview. I think of a lot of uh different things that I I do like the the the programmatic approach you can have uh through through the prompts utilization of templates and seems like there's quite a lot of cool features and it's um plug-and-play applicability seems to be pretty cool. >> Yeah, people are want Yeah, go ahead. >> Um, thank you for for saying that, Raid. Um, we're getting a lot of good feedback. This is fairly new, right? The the plotless studio is from probably the summer of 2025. And this data sources feature capability to connect to any data set out there, any database is is something that we only launched about a month and a half ago, two months ago. So, okay, really excited about it. We're getting a lot of good feedback. A lot of people from other communities are starting to use this because they realize how fast and quick and reliable these dashboards are. Um, so yeah. Uh, one one last little question I think from Greg. See if I can pop this up and then we'll all use that to wrap up. >> And I can share a few things, V also about like the convenience. >> Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And um, yeah, the I know you mentioned you had a couple things to share at the end of this. We'll do that, too. Um for enterprise running both PowerBI and Python heavy workflows um how would uh how have you seen customers typically splitting responsibilities? Um >> right is this question for enterprise is this question for me or for you for like the PowerBI enterprises? Uh this would probably I I'm going to translate this to say for enterprises running both a hosted modeling platform and plotly how would customers typically split responsibilities? >> You know I don't know the answer to that Greg. Well I what I'll do is I'll I'll I'll take this to because this is in the YouTube comments. I'm going to take this to one of my um colleagues and see what's the best way to answer and then I'll go back to the YouTube video Greg and I'll I'll answer your comments. >> Perfect. Excellent. Um yeah and you you mentioned as well some upcoming community events I think. >> Yeah. So um uh plotly community uh we meet on a monthly basis uh virtually uh a monthly uh meet up of the month uh the last Thursday of every month and we have uh app challenges that we do on our uh with plotly and dash or plotly studio that we publish on LinkedIn on our forum. So just go into our like plotly.com plotly community.com or just Google us um and all these events uh and we have the March 11 uh webinar which I'm going to do something similar to what I did right now with Ray but with a more sophisticated semantic models with multiple tables and merging of them. >> Um and that's that's on March 11. And so if you want to see everything that's going on with the community, if you want to join the community, just go to uh plotle.comvents and you'll see the calendar or go to the forum or just find me on LinkedIn on Discord and I'll be happy to to welcome. >> Perfect. And the the link to that that you gave me will be down in the description for anybody wanting to check that out later. Um, otherwise if people like is there any trial? Um, I might have missed this earlier or anything else if somebody wanted to get started and explore in Pli Studio just to like poke around in it to >> Oh, it's a nice free version when you first download and install it. Uh, you have a nice amount of AI credits that you can get and you can start building one or two apps on Plotly Studio. >> Okay. Excellent. Perfect. That'll make it easy for people to then explore it a little bit. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Um, all right. And yeah, so so the the the translated question Greg was saying uh is what he was asking for. So essentially the like the the split of responsibilities between the hosted data platform whatever that might be and then like the responsibilities for people managing the the platlet platform um for you for you to ask your uh >> um colleague later um but otherwise it looks like all questions are answered in the chat. So I think we're good to go from there. Um yeah, and I want to thank you uh for taking your time on to come and share um a lot of this stuff. It's uh definitely been fun and I I learned a lot about the platform as well. So, >> thank you Ray. It was a pleasure. Thank you for inviting me. Thank you for having me here. You have a wonderful audience. It was very good questions. I hope uh Aurora and Fernando that keep on coming back and Greg uh to future videos because they're really good questions and I hope to see you around the Platly community as well. >> Perfect. Then have a great rest of your afternoon everyone. Thanks for tuning in. and I'll see you all in the next stream. >> Bye-bye.